.. _docdevsummit:

BSDCAN Documentation Developers' Summit (1300 Wed Jun 8)
********************************************************

.. _session one:

Session One
***********

Categories

PO Translation Project
Status Report
Tried at ASIA

Working on implementing PO translation after BSDCAN 2015
not a replacement for the old translation system, they exist side by side
PO uses get text/editors in an attempt to streamline the process
PO translator program has improved the number of new translations being available
No new translations came online in 2015 prior to the PO program coming online.
It is hard to gage how in depth a specific translation commit can be.

.. _challenges:

Challenges
==========

The PO translator has no way to mark items to not be translated
Things that should not be translated
  pgp keys (most of the text cannot be translated)
  preserving existing translations (xml2po). FreeBSD needs help finding a program that auto translated xml files to po files.
  showing context
  more PO editors (poedit, gtranslator, kde based *) none show context
  UTF-8 Most XML documents are not UTF-8, they need to be converted. itstool converts the strings from the english text files
  
Translation Project Access
  Translator committers: limit access? Translators don't necessarily need access to all of the repo, just a small part. Limiting access would enable giving access to a much larger group of potential translators. Pootle or Weblate offers more options. Transfx is a commercialized product that also provides options
  
Participation
  FreeBSD needs more participation in all documentation (manpages, translates, reviews, etc.)
  In addition, FreeBSD needs more ways to reduce the learning curve for documentation submission.
  
  Encouraging documentation activity
    regular reports, like portmgr
    doceng's role
      the documentation engineering team is very small (xslt experience needed). The make sure the documents work. Toolchain, build. Maybe a leadership role? Currently, the flow of documentation is controlled by the contributions
    web reviews of rendered docs
    website news items for doc changes
      blog posts/evangelization/encourages activity

.. _website:

The Website
===========

  The current website is a full and complete object. it is manually generated by a static site generator. 
  Rewrite and address the .css issues without changing any of the underlying structure.
  Perhaps having a stable of skins available to alter how the website appears, to let the user choose the skin which appears best to them. A couple of standards must apply (logos)
  Branding/marketing perspective: it is very important that every customer have the same experience in order to unify the brand experience.
  Mobile device adaptation/
  Replacing the website probably has to include all of the current functionality
  Side-by-side rebuilding of the website that is focused on a few of the most important elements

  Q: is the website meant for a different class of writer? Instead of tech writers, perhaps marketers?
   What is a reasonable barrier to entry for the website or tech docs? We need to reach a middle ground where time to update and quality are balanced.
   The website is a legacy system. Updating the website is a problem of scale
   Perhaps the foundation should use other people (web designers) for the website instead of documentation writers
   How to make translations work on both systems?
   What is the ultimate decision for the website?
   
Session 2
*********

.. _editor process:

Simplifying the submission and editorial process
================================================

Currently we ask contributors to submit a quarterly report.
We have a specific xml format developed specifically for these documents that has its own tags and syntax which any contributor must learn prior to submitting anything.
Quarterly reports should be engaging and exciting to read.
This is a process which could potentially be made easier by switching formats? How to agree on a new standard format. 
Two challenges

1. Getting consistent contributions for quarterly reports.
2. Simplifying the formatting

How do you maintain a structured output format 

What are the time - stretching factors? 
People with wrong formatting
People with lengthy articles (long to format) a shorter article formatted in xml was 2586 lines.

.. _wish lists:

Wish Lists
==========

(Warren's wishlist)

- Help with doc toolchain/more participation in doceng
- localizable links to other formats at top of documentat.
- new website/skins for new website
- UTF-8 for all DocBook docs.
- More developer participation in the forums
- XInclude instead of entities for DocBook docs.
- DBlatex instead of fop for PDF
- Subscription required mailing lists
- method to mak items "do not translate"
- man page examples

Other wishlists

- Monthly online docsprints
- Face to face docsprints. These could be combined with the idea for short tutorial sessions.
- git pull requests for docs:

The documentation toolchain has all been combined into one package, but is still a little too lengthy
